hello my name is Steven and today I'm
going to talk about twelve Monkeys a
deadly virus released in 1996 wipes out
almost all of humanity forcing survivors
to live underground a group known as the
army of the 12 monkeys is believed to
have released the virus in 2035 James
Cole is a prisoner living in a
subterranean compound beneath the ruins
of Philadelphia Cole is selected to be
trained and sent back in time to find
the original virus in order to help
scientists develop a cure meanwhile Cole
is troubled by recurring dreams
involving a foot chase and shooting at
an airport Cola in Baltimore in 1990 not
1996 as planned he is arrested then
hospitalized in a mental hospital on the
diagnosis of dr. Kathryn Railly there he
encounters Jeffrey Goines a mental
patient with fanatical environmentalist
and anti corporatist views Cole is
interviewed by a panel of doctors and he
tries to explain that the virus outbreak
has already happened and nobody can
change it after an escape attempt Cole
is sedated and locked in a Cell but
disappears moments later and wakes up
back in 2035 he is interrogated by the
scientists who play a distorted voice
mail message that asserts the
association of the army of the 12
monkeys with the virus he is also shown
photos of numerous people suspected of
being involved including Goines
the scientists offer call a second
chance to complete his mission and send
him back in time he arrives at a
battlefield during World War one is shot
in the leg and then is suddenly
transported to 1996 in 1996 Railly gives
a lecture about the cassandra complex to
a group of scientists at the post
lecture book signing she meets dr peters
who tells her that apocalypse alarmists
represent the same vision while
humanity's gradual destruction of the
environment is the real lunacy : you
after seeing flies publicizing it and
when Railly departs he kidnaps her and
forces her to take him to Philadelphia
they learn that Goines is the founder of
the army of the 12 monkeys and set out
in search of him when they confront him
Goines denies any involvement with the
group and says that in 1990 Cola rigea
nated the idea of wiping out humanity
with a virus stolen from Goines
virologist father about to be
apprehended by police Cole is
transported back to 2035 where he
reaffirms to the scientists his
commitment to his mission but when he
finds rally again in 1996 he tells her
he now believes himself crazy as she had
suggested all along Railly meanwhile has
discovered evidence of his time-travel
which she shows him and she no longer
believes he is insane they decide to
depart for the Florida Keys before the
onset of the plate on their way to the
airport they learned that the army of
the 12 monkeys was not the source of the
epidemic the group's major act of
protest is releasing animals from a zoo
and placing Goines father in an animal
cage at the airport Cole leaves a last
message telling the scientists that in
following the army of the 12 monkeys
they are on the wrong track and that he
will not return he is soon confronted by
Jose an acquaintance from his own time
who gives Cola handgun an ambiguously
instructs him to follow orders
at the same time Railly spots dr peters
and recognizes him from a newspaper
photograph as an assistant that Goines
father's virology lab peters is about to
embark on a tour of several cities that
match the locations in sequence of the
viral outbreaks Cole forces his way
through a security checkpoint in pursuit
of Peter's after drawing the gun he was
given Cole is fatally shot by police as
Cole lies dying in Raley's arms Railly
suddenly begins to scan the crowd around
her seemingly looking for something she
knows must be there she finally makes
eye contact with a small boy the young
James caught
witnessing the scene of his own death
which will replay in his dreams for
years to come Peter's safely aboard the
plane with the virus sits down next to
Jones one of the scientists from the
future who comments that her job is
insurance
thank you all for watching don't forget
to subscribe and hit the bell
notification for more of these videos
[Music]